# SportsGator

#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/XH5pVh7edIQ>
#### Description:

##### Salute and Introduction:
_Hello there! My name is Marcos Dayan Mann, I'm 20 years old and from Mexico City.
First of all, I am very satisfied and happy with the CS50x course, and I want to send greetings to all the people who worked hard to create all the CS50 courses, last course I took was CS50P, and this time I ended up the course with more satisfaction than the last time, and with more motivation to keep going into this beautiful path_

I created a project called **SportsGator**. This project is a web-based application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, <https://p5js.org/> and  the <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/> framework, the back-end framework coded on Python, the one we saw on the final part of the course. This application uses an API from the website <https://rapidapi.com/hub> done by the user tank01, which upon petition, returns a wide variety of NFL Live In-Game Real Time Statistics, such as the score of each team, their rosters and schedule, and even some players statistics! I created a web interface to visualize some of this information, and also I created a tab showing a minigame I developed using the P5.js JavaScript framework. I hope you enjoy the project and that you get inspired by it to introduce yourself to the Computer Science and the Web Development!

##### Structure of the project:
The project contains different files working together to create the web application. First, we have the file app.py which has all the back-end functionality of the project. This Python file, imports a wide variety of modules including the Flask framework, some features of it to work with cookies and sessions, and some other features to work in a better way with JSON protocol. The file contains different routes for each of the routes on the web application. 

First, it is important to talk about the file structure of the project, on the first level we have the app.py file, then a folder called apis, in which I implemented separately the different information requests before implementing them to the back-end of the Web Application, then we hace a folder called static, in which I included a lot of useful resources for the Application, among them the png files, the mp3 files, the CSS file I used to give style to the Web Application, and finally a game folder, which contains the code and implementation for the minigame I created! In this game the user has to catch football balls that are falling through the screen before they reach the ground, and the user has five lives before losing. Finally, I included the templates folder, which includes all the HTML file where all the information will be displayed, and they will be launched by the back-end. First, we have the layout.html file, which contains the structure of the theme of the web page, including the navigation bar, the dark theme, and the footer, then the index.html file, which responds for the landing page, in which I tak a little bit about the project, and the functionality of the Web Application. Then, the game.html file, displays the minigame I developed, and is linked to its own route, and has a button on the navigation bar. Then we have the files that display the API data. First, we have teams.html file, which shows a real-time list of NFL teams, with its season score, its streak, and the logo of the team, each team has two options to view its roster, and its season schedule, by clicking in each of the buttons, the Web Application launches the roster.html or the schedule.html files in which you can see the information of the chosen team. 

Now, stepping into the implementation of the back-end, we have the default route "/", which loads the index.html file, this route is the simplest of the application, but very important so the users land on an overview of the Web Application.
Then, we have the "/game" route, also a little bit simple, because it redirects to the user to a new route, loading game.html, in which the minigame created with the P5.js framework is displayed. Stepping into the routes that contain implementation, we have first the "/teams" route, which makes a request to the tank01's API, and filters up the NFL teams, its information and logos, sort them by score in descending order so each team is appended on a dictionary structure to a list, woth the objective of passing it to the teams.html file, to display each real-time team information in order. Then, by this interface, we can accesss the final two routes, the first of them the "/roster" route, which makes a petition for the players of the specific team, information and statisctics, to be displayed on the roster.html file. The players are also formatted in a similar way than the teams, being sorted by position, first the offensive ones, and then the defensive ones, also, each player's photo is displayed. Finally, we have the final route, and also the most sophisticated, the schedule one. for this route, I made an API request, in which I asked for the specific team schedule, and the filtering of the nformation involved a lot of logic, to divide the teams into preseason, season, and pending matches, to display the bye week of each team, which isn't included on the API response, and to display each team logo, that also is not included on the response. For this, I loaded the team's names and logo on a session, so the Web Application have access to them everywhere. For the schedule clasification I used four diccionaries lists, each of them representing the preseason matches, the opending preseason matches, the regular season matches, and the pending regular season matches, so each stage of the season is divided, and it can be displayed on the schedule.html file in its order. I hope you find this project interesting, and it inspires you to start developing, I send you greetings!